Amy Harvey
11/30/2013
Introduction to Web Programming Section 1
Problem Solving



Problem 1: 

A Cat, a Parrot, and a Bag of Seed:
A man finds himself on a riverbank with a cat, a parrot and a bag of seed. He needs to transport all three to the other side of the river in his boat. However, the boat has room for only the man himself and one other item (either the cat, parrot or seed). In his absence, the cat could eat the parrot, and the parrot would eat the bag of seed. Show how he can get all the passengers to the other side, without leaving the wrong ones alone together.


The problem lies in needing to get multiple things to a location but not having the means to do it at all at once even though it needs to be done all at once because of certain circumstances. 

Throwing my insight into this problem itself would be that a parrot flies and does not need to be take via a boat. If you have seed, he will come.

The goal of the man is to ensure everyone and everything gets to the other side of the river safe and sound. 

One of the constraints that will cause a big problem is the lack of room on the boat that is by far the biggest. Another constraint would be that a cat around a bird can be very bad, and a bird near seed can tend to take seed over the anything else.. With lack of room in the boat though that can tend to be not such a bad thing being that the bird can fly.

One of the sub goals could easily be transporting the cat over to the other side of the river while you go back to pick up the seed and allow the bird to follow you with seed in hand. This way no one get’s hurt and nothing gets eaten and everyone is safe and sound… son far. 


My solution works exactly the way I stated it. Transporting the cat first ensures he will not go after the bird and then immediately go back to the other side to pick up the seed because it will take longer than a few moments to peck through the bag. Once you get the seed loaded up into the boat you can coax the bird into following the seed. 










Socks in the Dark:
There are 20 socks in a drawer: 5 pairs of black socks, 3 pairs of brown and 2 pairs of white. You select the socks in the dark and can check them only after a selection has been made. What is the smallest number of socks you need to select to guarantee getting the following?
a) At least one matching pair
b) At least one matching pair of each color.

The problem is trying to figure out the mathematical equation to get both one matching pair and one matching pair of each color. 

The only real insight I can give based on the question it’s going to be quite easier to find a pair of white socks than it is darker socks and is it’s not going to be too terribly hard to find a matching pair of socks but it will take more to get one of each color. 

I think the goal would be to end up with matching socks really of any color as long as they matched. We can normally see in the dark after so long of being in it because our eyes adjust.


One of the constraints on this problem is being in the dark, while we can see things in the dark its much harder to see dark items in the dark

To break the problem down into smaller goals I would separate the white socks first. They are the easiest to pick out. 

To find a solution to answer A you would need to pull out 4 socks. 1 for each color and then a fourth is bound to match one of the other three. 

Finding a solution to answer B is separation the socks into singles and then using the amount of socks for each color. There is 10 of black, 6 of brown and 4 of white. The only way to guarantee you will get one of each color without knowing before you check them is to pull 12. You can pull 10 socks out and never get a black one but its guaranteed that on the 11th and 12th it will be black. 




















Predicting Fingers:
A little girl counts using the fingers of her left hand as follows: She starts by calling her thumb 1, the first finger 2, middle finder 3, ring finger 4, and little finger 5. Then she reverses direction, calling the ring finger 6, middle finger 7, first finger 8 and thumb 9, after which she calls her first finger 10 and so on. If she continues to count in this manner, on which finger will she stop?

a) What if the girl counts from 1 to 10?
b) What if the girl counts from 1 to 100?
c) What if the girl counts from 1 to 1000?



The problem here is trying to figure out which finger she will be on because while she is using all 5 fingers after she reaches number five it goes back only 4 fingers so determining the possibility can be difficult because it changes things. 


Insight that is not shown in this problem is it will take her to at least to 25 before she lands back on her thumb that began with by counting by 5’s. But that is not the same for reaching 50. When she hits 50 it will be her first finger and then 75 will be her middle finger and so on. 

One of the constraints is you really can’t do anything except count on your fingers to figure out the pattern for how this will end up. Math these days is normally done in our heads but this takes us back to basics by using our fingers to see where we will end up. 


I think the best sub goal is figuring out a pattern for a smaller number as I explained at the insight section. Going by 25’s you always land at the next finger over from the previous 25 mark. 
